# Learning C++11 (Part 1)
## Background
As a long time C/C++ programmer I thought it was time to delve into some of the newer features of C++ now
that Visual Studio 2015 offers full support and the team is making wider use.  The purpose is to be able to
understand code that is already written and to be more effective in my own code.

## _auto_ keyword (or type inference)
The first thing I wanted to understand is the _auto_ keyword.  Very simply, using _auto_ adds the ability
to infer the type of a variable.  I immediately gravitated towards a couple of use cases.

**Old C++**
```c++
  for (std::vector<int>::const_iterator itr = v.cbegin(); itr != v.cend(); ++itr)
```

**C++11**
```c++
  for (_auto_ itr = v.cbegin(); itr != v.cend(); ++itr)
```

Using _auto_ to infer the verbose syntax of iterators or other templated code increases code readability.

**Old C++**
```c++
  SomeNamespace::MyClass::SomeEnumType rv = myclass.someFunction();
```

**C++11**
```c++
  _auto_ rv = myclass.someFunction();
```

Use can also use _auto_ to infer the return type of a function.  Especially when it's not useful to see
the return type spelled out.  Simplifying the code with no loss of clarity. This also comes in handy if
the return type is some kind of integer but you don't really care what size or sign it is (like from some
kind of size() function).  But be careful if you do care about size or sign (like when you're bit twiddling).

Best advice I was offered was to use _auto_ as much as possible and then see where things break or if code
becomes harder to read.  The _auto_ keyword replaces code that already works so use it as much as you're
comfortable with.
