# Learning C++11 (Part 2)

## _range-based for_
This is C++11's answer to foreach which you see in a lot of scripting languages.  Much like _auto_, it simplifies
the sometimes verbose syntax of a standard for-loop.  It's great when you just need the value of what you're
iterating over.

You can use _range-based for_ on your collection classes if _begin()_ and _end()_ are implemented as well as
plain C arrays.  Let's look at some examples.

**Old C++**
```cpp
  for (std::vector<int>::const_iterator itr = v.cbegin(); itr != v.cend(); ++itr)
  {
    auto value = *itr;
    printf("value: %d\n", value);
  }

  for (int i = 0; i < v.size(); ++i)
  {
    int value = v[i];
    printf("value: %d\n", value);
  }
```

**C++11**
```cpp
  for (auto value: v)
  {
    printf("value: %d\n", value);
  }
```

Simple example of iterating over a container and printing the results.  Two different ways of doing it the old
way, but both can be simplified the same way in C++11.  The code is greatly simplified to only what we care
about (the value) and nothing else.

**Old C++**
```cpp
  for (std::vector<int>::iterator itr = v.begin(); itr != v.end(); ++itr)
  {
    *itr *= 2;
  }
```

**C++11**
```cpp
  for (auto& value: v)
  {
    value *= 2;
  }
```

This time we want to modify each entry in the container.  Note in this example we need to use a reference in
the _range-based for_.

### When to use value vs. reference
Here are some general rules on when to use value or reference.
* When you want to change the value, use a reference (_auto&_)
* When the value would incur a copying penalty, use a const reference (_const auto&_)
* Otherwise, simply use by value (_auto_)

### There's something missing
Remember the first example where we used the index to get the value out of the vector?  When you use _range-based for_
you lose that index or iterator if you need it for something else.
